All right.
So this is the Windows installation video.
Skip this if you're on a Mac or you're running Linux.
All right.
So we've established now that you want to install Java eleven or in our case the JD k of Java development
kit version eleven.
There is one got you for Windows users though and that's if you're running a 32 bit version of Microsoft
Windows.
In that case Oracle don't provide 32 bit versions of the Java development kit anymore.
You'll have to install an older version of the Java development kit if your computer has a 32 bit version
of Windows.
Don't worry though you can still follow along with the course and not be affected.
There's just a slightly different installation process.
Most modern computers these days are running a 64 bit version.
But how do you actually know if your computer is running a 32 bit or 64 bit version of Windows.
What you need to do is first take it into a control panel in windows.
It's going to come down here and right click on the windows icon and select settings that will usually
work for most versions of Windows.
Then you want to go into system.
Now in my case because I'm running Windows 10 I can actually type system and then I get an option down
here.
I'm kind of typing sys about halfway down here we can see a batch or P.C. I'm going to click on that
and that's how I can get to the screen that I need to get to.
Now if you're not running Windows 10 you need to go into system and then you'll find an option for about.
So either way you get to the screen here and it should look very similar to this.
If you're not running Windows 10 and the big way down looking for down here is this and a system taut
64 bit operating system X 64 based processor.
The important bit is a bit on the left which my case says 64 bit operating system.
So that's telling me then obviously I'm running a 64 bit version and therefore I can use the JT capers
and eleven but if you do this and find on your computer it says 32 bit operating system then you'll
need to install the older version of the GK.
All right some of the closes down.
And armed with that knowledge we can go grab the correct JT cave sorry to do that we're going to go
to a couple hours away print I'm going to go to Java dot some dot com All right so once we get to this
oracle page we can come up here and click on Java is a Java essay by the way stands for Java standard
edition and that's what we're gonna be using in this course.
So I can say when I've done that on the screen now we've got Java AC 11 and in parentheses we can see
oh yes.
So he s means long term support.
So at this point if you are running a 64 bit version of windows like I am come over here to the right
under Oracle JD K. click on Download bring me here to Let's page up for the JFK version eleven I will
scroll down a little bit.
I'm going to click on except license agreement.
I'm going to come down here to Windows.
I'm going to click on the executable when I click on rundown he while that's downloading I'm gonna show
you what the 32 bit version would look like.
So if you're running a 32 bit version of windows you can't download this version or we can download
it but you'll find it won't work.
So instead what you do is you get back instead you'll scroll down a bit further noting that there's
a Java 10 version there but we'll ignore that and we'll come down here to Java 8.
This is the version of Java that will work was the last version that worked for 32 bit users.
Then you'll come down here to Jerry Kay download click on that and other options here.
We've got two versions.
Windows x 8 6 and Windows x 6 4.
So in the case of 32 bit users you would select this file here this I 586 version which is the x 6 version
and download it as you saw me download the 80 k version eleven but obviously that would be Java not
my kid version 8.
I was going to click on yes to start my installation
so again that would only be the you only need to do that if you have a 32 bit version of Windows.
And in my case I've got the 64 bit and that's why I'm going to download as I'm gonna get back now just
to that page again.
And that was the version that I selected up here.
Java eleven.
So at this point once you've downloaded either Java 11 or Java right you'll find that the installation
process when you start it will be very similar.
So I'm going to go through the installation steps now for JT K eleven.
I won't click on Next there.
I'm going to leave the default but to keep a note of what this folder is.
In my case you can see it C colon backslash Program Files backslash Java backslash JT K eleven and that
will be slightly different if you've downloaded the Jedi Kate.
Click on next.
It's fairly simple installation process which goes through
at this point.
We're actually done the second class now the Java development kit has been installed in the next video
it's time to download and install tele J.
And that's the program we'll be using in the course that works with the j k that we've just installed
in this video and it helps you to write and execute Java programs.
So I'll see you in the next video.